Now besides the symbols we can create and you can create as many as you want,
there also are so-called well known symbols.
These are symbols that are built into modern Javascript, basically Javascript after ES5,
so ES6 or higher and were built in before too but now you can access them I should say
and these are symbols that can help you do certain things.
Now we'll see the symbol iterator thing in action a little bit later for example,
this allows you to actually make any object iterable with the for/of loop which by default is not
possible for a regular object for example,
it is possible for an array though but I'll come back to that.
Now we've got other well-known symbols there in the end,
these are just symbols that are built into Javascript which you can access on this symbol object
if you don't execute it like a function but instead as an object with a static property with the dot notation,
then these are as symbols which were created by Javascript so to say and which you can therefore use
in which Javascript then in turn also tries to find for certain actions, just as we as a library author
can try to use the uid symbol here to for example reassign the value or extract the value, the Javascript
engine also has certain built-in symbols which it also uses in certain circumstances,
for example when the for/of loop gets executed, it tries to find that symbol iterator symbol here, the
built-in iterator symbol on an object and see if the for/of loop can be used on that object because it
requires that and some logic attached to it to use that but we'll see that when we dive into iterators
and generators. For now just be aware that there are bunch of built-in symbols,
most of the time you will not really need them, though
there is one for example which I want to show you and that's the toString tag symbol. We have an object
here, we have the user object here.
Now when we console log user, you of course see this works quite well here and in the Chrome browser,
we print this object. Now technically if we would call to string here on the user and we console log
the result of that, you however get this object object thing here.
Now that simply happens because the to string method called on any object just prints this, the to
string method exists because it exists on the default prototype every object has
but of course the output here is not useful.
The fact that we can look into the object with console log is a little convenience offered by the Chrome
browser in the end,
it's not something we can rely on, normally
it should actually just print the result of to string because that's what console log typically does
but for objects the browser gives us this extra utility of actually printing the object in an analyzable
way.
So to string is something we can call though to convert the object to a string which we can show to
a user for example.
Now as I mentioned, what we then get is this here,
now you can add a special symbol here to the user object,
again with this dynamic property assignment syntax and here I want to use one of the built-in
symbols. So we access symbol here,
so this symbol object we executed as a function out there and then .toString tag. Now toString
tag allows us to define a tag as a value,
so a string tag here which will then be part of the output that is generated here,
for example here we could say user object and
now if we save that and we reload, we see now we're printing
object user object and of course therefore we could also just print user here.
So this allows us to for example tweak what the to string method outputs here,
of course we could also simply override the entire to string method if we want to customize it completely
but if we just want to change that tag which is part of the default output, we can do that with this
built-in symbol.
Now whilst this is not something you will use everyday because we could argue how useful and important
that is, it shows you what the idea behind these well-known built-in symbols is,
they are used by some Javascript code,
some default Javascript code
in this case here by the to string method which exists on every object and Javascript looks up these
symbols
and if it then finds them, which it does here when we define it in our own object, it uses them.
So that's what we can do here
and this would not work if we would try to create our own symbol to string tag because as I mentioned,
this is just an identifier for you as a human,
this is totally ignored by Javascript, this does not create a symbol of the same kind we just used.
This creates a brand new symbol which Javascript simply doesn't look for,
so we have to use this symbol which is built-in which Javascript is aware of and which Javascript looks
for because it uses this all the time internally.
So that's the idea behind symbols,
you can create unique identifiers for your objects which you have to know in order to use them.